---
layout: page
title: Zé Antonio Magalhães
permalink: /magalhães
---
# Zé Antonio Magalhães

**Zé** holds a PhD in Legal Theory from PUC-Rio, a MPhil in Law from the National Faculty of Law, UFRJ, and a BA in Law from UFPel. Zé's [research](https://pucrj.academia.edu/zamagalhaes) draws from contemporary theoretical currents such as speculative realism, accelerationism and the ontological turn in Anthropology to produce what he calls a "speculative legal theory" or "speculative nomics". This is a thought and practice which doesn't take for granted the manifest image of modern law, but rather asks what else law might become or be found to have always been.

He is interested in bridging the modern distinction between "positive" and "natural law", and in how the rights of non-humans (such as rivers or the earth) might be conceived as emanating from the mode of being and perspective of such entities, rather than as being posited in modern law. To achieve that, Zé's work draws on a re-reading of legal theorists such as Hans Kelsen and Carl Schmitt through the lenses of cosmopolitics and Amerindian perspectivism.

Zé is also currently involved in the development of new platforms for research, teaching and practice in the post/non/in/humanities, mainly in connection to [The New Centre for Research and Practice](https://thenewcentre.org/) (U.S.A.) and [Associação de Pesquisas e Práticas em Humanidades](https://apph.com.br/) (Brazil), as well as in the dissemination of cosmopolitical discussion, especially through [Transe](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCf4CgSpWoOQOypPFjhVOBcA).

## Nomics and demogrammar

This thesis intends an opening move in the field of legal theory as well as in that of law and technology studies, and especially in the intersection of the two. It tries to construct a theory of law and of its relation to technology that allows for the navigation of the contemporary passage from what I call modern nomics to a platform nomics linked to the emergence of planetary scale computation, algorithmic governance and the climate crisis. To do that, I first try to make a contribution to a speculative legal theory (neither an “internal” theory of modern law as we know it, nor a critical/deconstructive legal theory). I do so by reading two key thinkers of modern law, Hans Kelsen and Carl Schmitt, as complementary, and through currents of the so-called “speculative turn” in contemporary theory. Kelsen is read as an accelerationist/inhumanist, and Schmitt in light of cosmo/geontopolitics, while Deleuze and Guattari’s assemblage theory serves as a background through which the rest is connected. Secondly, I mobilize this conceptual apparatus to speculate about platform nomics. I build nomic concepts of code, platform, device, application, interface and user. Algorithmic demogrammar is defined as operating by massive data collection, tracing of graphs and modulation of conducts. I look to trace some tendencies in the transition to platform nomics, e.g. to the contingency of the positions of person and thing, to the indistinction between norm and bias, to the non-instrumentality of technics, to the plurality of worlds, to the superimposition of nomoi, to the confusion of cognition and governance etc. I finish by offering three speculative models/paradigms for the navigation of platform nomics – an inhuman model, based on the hypothesis of general intelligence; an animistic paradigm, linked to the Gaia hypothesis/myth, and, finally, a tentative composition between the two.

### Tecnomia e demogramática

Esta pesquisa se pretende um movimento de abertura tanto no campo da teoria do direito quanto no dos estudos de direito e tecnologia, e em especial na intersecção entre esses campos. Ela busca construir uma teoria do direito e da sua relação com as técnicas que permita navegar a passagem contemporânea entre o que chamo de tecnomia moderna e uma tecnomia das plataformas ligada à emergência da computação em escala global, da governança algorítmica e da crise climática. Para tanto, busco, em primeiro lugar, contribuir para uma teoria especulativa do direito (nem uma teoria “interna” do direito moderno como o conhecemos, nem uma teoria crítica/desconstrutiva do direito). Procuro fazê-lo lendo dois pensadores chave do direito moderno, Hans Kelsen e Carl Schmitt, como complementares e à luz de correntes da chamada “virada especulativa” da filosofia contemporânea. Kelsen é lido como um aceleracionista/inumanista, e Schmitt à luz da cosmo/geontopolítica, enquanto a filosofia dos agenciamentos de Deleuze e Guattari serve como o fundo pelo qual tudo isso se articula. Em segundo lugar, mobilizo esse aparato a fim de especular sobre uma tecnomia das plataformas. Construo conceitos tecnômicos de código, plataforma, dispositivo, aplicativo, interface e usuário. A demogramática algorítmica é definida como operando por captação massiva de dados, traçado de grafos e modulação de condutas. Procuro traçar algumas tendências na transição à tecnomia das plataformas, e.g. tendências à contingência das posições de pessoa e de coisa, à indistinção entre norma e viés, à não-instrumentalidade das técnicas, à pluralidade dos mundos, à sobreposição de nomias, à imbricação entre cognição e governo etc. Termino sugerindo três modelos/paradigmas especulativos para a navegação da tecnomia das plataformas – um modelo inumano, fundado na hipótese da inteligência geral; um paradigma animista, ligado à hipótese/mito de Gaia, e, por fim, uma tentativa de composição entre os dois.
